# Face Mask Detection System## OverviewThis project implements a real-time face mask detection system using deep learning and computer vision techniques. It utilizes a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to classify whether a person is wearing a mask or not, based on input images or video streams.## Table of Contents- [Overview](#overview)- [Features](#features)- [Dataset](#dataset)- [Installation](#installation)- [Usage](#usage)- [Algorithm](#algorithm)## Features- Real-time face mask detection using OpenCV.- Deep learning-based CNN model for high accuracy.- Detection of multiple faces with and without masks in real-time.## Dataset- The model is trained on a dataset containing images of people with and without face masks. The dataset is preprocessed and augmented to improve model accuracy and generalization.- Link to the dataset: [Face Mask Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/andrewmvd/face-mask-detection)## Installation1. Clone the repository:   ```bash   git clone https://github.com/17297781Karthik/Face-Mask-Detection.git   cd Face-Mask-Detection   ```2. Install the required packages:   ```bash    pip install -r requirements.txt    ```3. Run the face mask detection system:   ```bash   python capture.py   ``` ## Usage- The system can be used to detect face masks in real-time using a webcam or video stream.- The model can also be used to predict face masks on images by providing the image path as input.- The `capture.py` script captures the video stream from the webcam and detects face masks in real-time.## Algorithm- The face mask detection system uses a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to classify images of people with and without face masks.- The model is trained on a dataset containing images of people with masks, without masks, and incorrectly worn masks.- The CNN model is trained using the TensorFlow and Keras libraries.- The model is compiled with the Adam optimizer and binary cross-entropy loss function.- The model is trained for 8 epochs with a accuracy of `97%`.- Refer to the `facemask_detect.ipynb` notebook for more details on the training process.- The trained model is saved as `mask_detector.model`.